[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So we want to find
a better way of structuring that kind of
stuff, and that thing is promises.
Promises come out features which
came out of the actual model,
this is another of the benefit
of the actual model.
Promises are an excellent mechanism for
managing asynchronicity.
A promise is an object that
represents a possible future value.
So we can have an operation
which will return something,
which indicates something that might
happen later but hasn't happened yet, but
it contains that potential.
Every promise has a corresponding resolver
that is used to ultimately assign a value
to that promise, and every promise has one
of three states, kept, broken, or pending.
It's created pending and can move
to one of the other two states and
after that it will never change again
>> Douglas Crockford: A promise
is also an event generator,
it fires its event when the value
of the promise is ultimately known.
And at any time after
the making of a promise,
event handling functions can be
registered with the promise,
which will be called in the order with
the promise's value when it is known.
And a promise can accept
functions that will be called with
the value once the promise
has been kept or broken.
So promise.when can take two functions,
success or failure.
And which one will be called will depend
on the ultimate resolution of the promise.
>> Douglas Crockford: So here's some code,
I have a macroid called vow,
which I used to make vows.
A vow contains a keep function,
a break function, and a promise object.
The keep function I call when I know
what the value of the promise is, and
I want to keep the promise.
If I know that the promise will never be
kept, I can break it, and explain why.
Then the promise itself takes a when
method, and that when method can take
two functions, one of which may be called,
depending on the result of the function.
And when itself returns another promise,
so
based on result of that
we can do more stuff, so
we get a level of compossibility
with these things.
So here's an example of
how you might use it.
We have done file IO wrong
ever since four trap,
it's always been a break
in weight kind of thing.
So when you call the file system for
a file, that could mean several
process which is, it can be waiting for
rotation, it can be waiting for
your place in the IO queue,
it can be waiting for a lot of stuff.
We don't wanna wait in
return based system.
So the other way to do it is to have the
file system immediately return a promise.
And that promise will be made good
once the file system gets around
to reading the file.
So this is how I think file system should
work and no JS comes really close to this.
So I read_file, give it a file name.
And I'll say when we have the result
of that file, call success function and
it will get the string,
which represents the contents of the file.
So that's how we do it, we treat it
just like treat events in the browser.
Waiting for the user to click
on something, waiting for
a file to get read,
works exactly the same way.
And we also provide a failure function to
be called if for some reasons they can't
open the file, like the file can't be
found or I don't have access or whatever.
You might wonder why do we
call a failure function,
why don't we just throw an exception?
It's because of the nature of turns that,
so
an exception modifies control flow
by unwinding the stack, right?
Say we got an error here, let's step
back until we find somebody who wants
to catch it, and then we can go forward.
But in a turn-based system, the stack
is emptied at the end of every turn.
Cuz every turn program runs to
completion when it is finished,
there's no more stack.
So it's like time travel,
there's no way you can
throw something into a previous turn,
cuz that time has ended.
We can only go forward, and the mechanism
we have for going forward is promises.
Okay, so the failure branch of the promise
is the way we send exceptions into
the future.
>> Douglas Crockford: And
we can cascade failures as well.
So here I've got a promise, and
I'll call its when method passing a,
and it returns a promise.
I'll call it's thing and say call
it success_b, it returns a promise.
We'll call it's thing and a failure.
So success_a gets the result
of the promise and
b gets the result of a, and
c gets the result of b.
But if any of those fail then the failure
propagates to this failure method.
So this chaining of failure means
that this acts sort of like the try.
I can have all of these things which
are being resolved in different terms.
And if any of them go wrong for
any reason,
that is a function that
I know gets called.
So it gives me a much better
way of controlling this stuff,
keeping track of what's going on.